So, guys, going forward now, you can see that I have written some piece of code on the right hand
side.
So this is a very simple C-code and we will try to understand that.
What part of the C code is installed in what fragment of the virtual address space that I have drawn
on the left hand side.
So let us call the record as a process B and on the left hand side, this is the actual address space
of A, process B.
So let us see line by line that what the essence of this program are actually stored in what fragment
of this virtual memory.
So the first is actually the global variable, right, and it is initialized, so therefore it will
going to be stored in the initialized data fragment of this virtual memory.
Right.
Second one is, again, a global variable, but it is not initialized by the programmer.
So this global variable will be stored in the initialize data fragment of this virtual memory.
The operating system knows that the programmer has not initialized this global variable.
Therefore, before the execution of this program actually starts, the operating system initializes
all the variables which are stored in this initialized data fragment with zero.
Right.
So if the program do not explicitly initialized this global variable, then the operating system will
take the responsibility to initialize the initialized global variable before the execution of the program
starts.
Now, the next thing is the invocation of the function mean here is a function which is actually invoked
by the operating system.
So whenever a function call is invoked, some kind of metadata is always stored in the stack memory.
Now, this metadata is nothing, but it is the arguments which are passed to the function, plus the
local variables of the function.
So we have discussed in the previous slide that whenever there is a function invocation, there is always
some useful data which is stored in the stack memory.
That useful data actually makes the execution of the function which is being invoked possible.
So do not worry, we will going to discuss in detail that exactly what metadata is actually stored in
the stack memory when a function is invoked.
Then in the next line, you can see that we have a local variable and we know that the local variable
of a function is always stored in the stack memory, right.
Similarly, Canstar, my name is equal to Abhishek is again a local variable and it will be stored in
the stock memory along with the value, not static.
Variables are special variables.
It doesn't matter whether they are local variable or they are global variable.
They will always be going to stay in the initialized data fragment or an initialized data fragment,
depending whether the programmer has initialized or not initialized static variables.
So in this case, the programmer has initialized the static variable and therefore it will be saved
in the initialized data fragment of natural memory.
Now, next available is appointed time variable, and this variable is actually a local variable.
Therefore, it will be saved in the stock memory.
Now, in the next line, the program is actually requesting dynamic memory from the operating system
of six hundred bytes.
So as we know that all the dynamic memory allocation is done from the hip region.
Right.
So this memory will be assigned from the hip region of this working memory and therefore this heap memory
region, which is shown in white color, will grow in the upper direction and it will expand by 100
bytes.
So these hundred bytes will be claimed from the heat memory region.
Now, the next statement in this example is the invocation of some function for.
Now, we already know that function in location results in serving some metadata in the stack memory,
so we will save some metadata in this stack mummery.
So not that more the content you save in the stack memory, that stack memory will grow from Harad towards
lower address.
Right.
Because you are saving more and more content to the stack memory.
And now when you compile this program, the compiler will generate an assembly code followed by a machine
code.
So the assembly code of this program will be saved in the code section of this Whelchel memory.
And note that this code memory is actually read only memory that does one.
It is written with the assembly code of a process you cannot alter or modify code section of the memory
at any cost.
So now to summarize, what is the virtual address space of the process?
So the virtual address, the space of the process B is nothing, but it is the summation of the code
section that is good memory plus data section, which is both initialized and initialized the heap memory
region, which is shown in white color, that stack memory, which is shown in this red color and the
command line arguments.
So all of this region of what will address the space defines the what will address the space of a process.
A process can access the content stored at any address which belong to any of these fragments of the
will address the space, the memory region, which is not yet assigned to a process, is actually a
memory region which is available.
And if a process tries to make an attempt to actually access the address A which belongs to this unclaimed
heap memory region, then the operating system will kill the process with the error segmentation fault.
Similarly, if a process try to access the address B and that memory of the process has not grown to
include the address B, then any attempt to access the content at Address B will result in segmentation
fault.
So this is how the virtual memory of the process is organized by the operating system.
Now, let us summarize what we have discussed so far, so let us discuss that important fragment of
the world show that was the space.
So the Human Region One program allocate memory at runtime using Kalac or Mallak system call the memory
gets allocated in the prison, then some more memory need to be allocated, use Kellock or Marlock function
than he grows upwards as shown in the diagram.
Similarly, we have a stark memory stuck memory is used to store local vegetables, past arguments to
the function along with the return address of the instruction, which will be executed after the function
call is over.
So need not worry, we will going to study this in pretty much detail in the coming sleights.
So a new STAC frame news actually means a new function needs to be added.
As a result of newly called function, the stack grows downwards.
So the main purpose of the static memory is that it supports procedure calls and processes and returns.
And then is the data segment.
The data segment.
Part of the family is a memory which is used to store global and static vegetables.
And as we know, that data segment is again splitting up into two parts the initialized data segment
and the initialized data segment.
And one important distinction that you can make here is that stack memory girls from Hodda address to
lower address.
So you can see that this is a static memory.
And as you push more content to the stack memory, it grows from Harad towards laboratories, whereas
on the other hand, keep memory grows from lowriders towards high retros.
So the discussion that we have done so far is actually very important from interview perspective, the
memory out of a Lennix process is OSDD from freshens up to 10 years of experience.
And it is asked almost every time when you apply for the interview, especially in the domain of system
programming or Carnot programming.
In fact, the concept that we have discussed so far is actually a very much part of our undergraduate
curriculum and therefore these questions are also asked from flesh.